Chinese(GB)
RSS
Organizational Chart
Data
Communiqués
Legal Framework
Classifications & Methods
Latest Releases
International Cooperation
Understanding Statistics
Agency
Home > Latest Releases
Investment in Fixed Assets from January to August 2026
2026-09-16 10:00
Print |
Large |
Medium |
Small
From January to August 2026, the national investment in fixed assets (excluding rural households) was 29,309.2 billion yuan, a year-on-year decrease of 7.2% (calculated on a comparable basis; see Annotation 7 for details). Specifically, the investment in intellectual property products increased by 9.2% year on year.     By industry, the investment in the primary industry was 583.2 billion yuan, a year-on-year decrease of 2.4%; the investment in the secondary industry was 11,309.4 billion yuan, down 2.9%; and the investment in the tertiary industry was 17,416.6 billion yuan, down 9.9%.   The industrial investment decreased by 2.9% year on year. Specifically, the investment in mining increased by 3.4%, the investment in manufacturing decreased by 2.3%, and the investment in production and supply of electricity, heat power, gas and water decreased by 6.9%.   The investment in infrastructure (see Annotation 1 for details of statistical scope) decreased by 4.0% year on year. Specifically, the investment in information transmission increased by 28.4%, the investment in civil aviation transportation increased by 16.7%, and the investment in waterway transportation increased by 14.7%.   By region, the investment in the eastern region decreased by 9.4% year on year, the investment in the central region decreased by 8.7%, the investment in the western region decreased by 8.8%, and the investment in the northeastern region decreased by 25.5%.   By statistical category of registration, the investment in fixed assets of domestic-invested enterprises decreased by 7.1% year on year, the investment in fixed assets of enterprises funded by investors from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan decreased by 6.9%, and the investment in fixed assets of foreign-invested enterprises decreased by 4.3%.   From January to August 2026, non-governmental investment in fixed assets decreased by 10.1% year on year. On a month-on-month basis, the investment in fixed assets (excluding rural households) decreased by 0.5% in August.   Investment in Fixed Assets (Excluding Rural Households) from January to August 2026
Indicator
Growth Rate Y/Y (%)
Investment in Fixed Assets (Excluding Rural Households)
-7.2
Of which: State-holding
-3.6
Of which: Non-governmental investment
-10.1
By component
Construction and installation
-9.8
Purchase of equipment and instruments
9.3
Other expenses
-12.0
By industry
Primary industry
-2.4
Secondary industry
-2.9
Tertiary industry
-9.9
By sector
Agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery
-3.0
Mining
3.4
Manufacturing
-2.3
Of which: Processing of food from agricultural and sideline products
-2.0
Manufacture of foods
-10.4
Textile industry
5.4
Manufacture of raw chemical materials and chemical products
-8.1
Manufacture of medicines
-8.3
Smelting and pressing of non-ferrous metals
-4.1
Manufacture of metal products
-8.9
Manufacture of general-purpose machinery
0.9
Manufacture of special-purpose machinery
-9.0
Manufacture of automobiles
-6.0
Manufacture of railway, ship, aerospace and other transport equipment
16.3
Manufacture of electrical machinery and apparatus
0.8
Manufacture of computers, communication equipment and other electronic equipment
8.1
Production and supply of electricity, heat power, gas and water
-6.9
Transport, storage and post
2.1
Of which: Road transportation
-8.0
Water conservancy, environment and public facilities management
-11.0
Of which: Management of water conservancy
-12.0
Management of public facilities
-11.2
Education
-15.6
Health and social services
-14.0
Culture, sports and entertainment
-14.9
By statistical category of registration
Of which: Domestic-invested enterprises
-7.1
Enterprises funded by investors from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan
-6.9
Foreign-invested enterprises
-4.3
Note: The growth rates in this table are not adjusted for price factors.   Annotations:   1. Notes on Indicators   Investment in fixed assets (excluding rural households): It is a general term representing the monetary value of the workload completed in a certain period concerning the construction and acquisition of fixed assets, as well as the related expenses.   Investment in infrastructure: In accordance with current statistical rules, investment in infrastructure includes fixed-asset investment in the following sectors: production and supply of electricity and heat power; production and supply of gas; production and supply of water; railway transportation; road transportation; waterway transportation; civil aviation transportation; pipeline transportation; multimodal transportation and transport agency industry; loading, unloading and handling; post; telecommunication, radio, television and satellite transmission services; Internet and related services; management of water conservancy; ecological conservation and environmental governance; and management of public facilities. The growth rate of investment in infrastructure is calculated on a comparable basis.   State-holding enterprises: Absolute state-holding where the proportion of the paid-in capital (equity) owned by contributors with a state-owned economic component in the total paid-in capital (equity) of the enterprise is greater than 50%.   Relative state-holding where the proportion of the paid-in capital (equity) owned by contributors with a state-owned economic component in the total paid-in capital (equity) of the enterprise is no greater than 50%, but is more than the proportion of contributors with any other economic component; or state-holding by agreement where the proportion of contributors with a state-owned economic component is no greater than that of contributors with other economic components, but the actual control of the enterprise is exercised by contributors with a state-owned economic component according to the agreement.   For enterprises in which both parties each hold 50% and no absolute controlling party is specified, if one of the parties is a state-owned economic component, the enterprise shall be classified as state-holding.   The investment projects of administrative and public institutions are state-holding.   Statistical category of registration: The classification is conducted in accordance with the Regulations on the Statistical Classification of Market Entities (Guotongzi [2023] No.14), jointly issued by the National Bureau of Statistics of China and the State Administration for Market Regulation.   2. Statistical Coverage   Investment in fixed asset projects with a total planned investment of 5 million yuan or more, as well as investment in all real estate development projects.   3. Survey Method   Statistics on investment in fixed assets are collected through a comprehensive monthly survey (with reporting exempted for January).   4. Definition of Eastern, Central, Western and Northeastern Regions   The eastern region includes 10 provinces (municipalities), namely, Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Shandong, Guangdong, and Hainan; the central region includes 6 provinces, namely, Shanxi, Anhui, Jiangxi, Henan, Hubei, and Hunan; the western region includes 12 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions), namely, Inner Mongolia, Guangxi, Chongqing, Sichuan, Guizhou, Yunnan, Xizang, Shaanxi, Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia, and Xinjiang; the northeastern region includes 3 provinces, namely, Liaoning, Jilin and Heilongjiang.   5. Industrial Classification Standard   The Industrial Classification for National Economic Activities (GB/T 4754-2017) was implemented.   6. Revision of Month-on-Month Data   According to the results of automatic correction based on the seasonal adjustment model, the month-on-month growth rates of investment in fixed assets (excluding rural households) since August 2025 have been revised. The revised results and month-on-month data for August 2026 are as follows:
Year
Months
Growth Rate M/M (%)
2025
August
-1.52
September
-0.11
October
-1.39
November
-0.66
December
-1.61
2026
January
0.72
February
0.30
March
-0.99
April
-2.52
May
-0.99
June
-0.10
July
-1.37
August
-0.50   7. Explanation of Year-on-Year Growth Rate   In accordance with the reform of investment statistical methods, statistical law enforcement inspections, and other regulations, the data on investment in fixed assets for the same period of the previous year have been revised, and the growth rates of investment in fixed assets are calculated on a comparable basis.   Due to cross ‑ regional investment, there are limitations to the comparability between regional investment growth rates and the national investment growth rate.
FAQs
| About NBS
| Contact Us
| Terms of Service
National Bureau of Statistics of China